---
layout: post
title: Rants on Freedom in Pakistani Culture
published: true
---

I fell in love last year. She was beautiful, intelligent, understanding and everything I had ever hoped for in a perfect girl for myself. Year and half later it was best relationship one could hope for, despite that we are no longer together because our society didn't approve of our relationship. I have a million questions against religion but I am afraid to express or discuss them with anyone, or even officially declare that I no longer beleive in religion because I may actually be killed for speaking against faith. I have worked hard to become what I am today. Coming from a small town school where we were taught writing A B and C till grade 6 and becoming a regular reader/writer wasn't an easy task. My inspiration for hardwork was to be able to do all cool things other people in world can do like travelling the world, buying awesome cars, dream homes and most of all to have freedom of doing whatever I wanted to do with my life. Now that I can do that, my parents and siblings look toward me to support them, which I will but does that leave room for my own dreams? I don't blame them, that's how it has always been in our society. One person out of four does all the hardwork and then feeds three not so hardworking people. Half of our workforce (women) never work, putting all burden of work on men. Since women don't work, they don't know how hard it is to earn money and make it even more difficult for men to earn *enough* to satisfy them. I don't blame women, in most of cases they can't work even if they wished to, thanks to our culture. Kudos to women who fight against this culture and get out to work. You're a hope for this society's future. There are a million other things I could rant about right now, it's 3 AM here and I just feel angry and may regret this post later, but screw it I will rant about all what bugs me right now so I can take a peaceful nap.
