---
layout: post
title: AWS - Part 5.1 - Amazon S3 Overview
---

S3 is probably second most frequently used AWS service after EC2. From what I have heard, It's a big part of Solution Architect Exam, so I will to cover it in detail. S3 has a lot of features so I won't be covering them all but will go through the important ones. For details S3 overview, A Cloud Guru has deep dive S3 course which you can refer to.

S3 comes from Simple Storage Service, that is, three S in name. It's an object storage service. Objects are basically files and some metadata about these files. All objects get stored in Buckets. You can think of Buckets as folders in which you can organize and manage different files in S3. Bucket names need to be unique accross all of AWS, so you can't create a bucket which was already created by someone else.

An S3 object has following content:

- Key (name of file)
- Value (data)
- Metadata (tags/labels and other data about data)
- Version ID (when we enable versioning of objects)
- Access Control Lists
- Torrent

S3 has read after write consistency for new objects. So if you put a new object in S3, you can immediately access it. For deletes and updates, it has eventual consistency so it may take a while to replicat update and delete to all Availability Zones and you may see a delay of few milliseconds or seconds before things get reflected everywhere.

Objects in S3 have 99.999999999% (11 9s) durability guarantee. So chances of having your stored objects lost are almost nil unless earth was hit by a meteor. Availability guarantee for S3 is 99.9%. That is, maximum amount of downtime for S3 is 8 hours 45 minutes 36 seconds yearly or 1 minute 26 seconds per day. Amazon claims they have designed S3 for 99.99% availability, that is 52 minutes 34 seconds yearly downtime or 9 seconds per day. While we are talking about SLAs, [http://www.slatools.com/sla-uptime-calculator](http://www.slatools.com/sla-uptime-calculator) is good tool for calculating what SLAs percentiles mean in terms of time.

## Some features of S3

S3 allows encryption, maintains compliance programs, such as PCI-DSS, HIPAA/HITECH, FedRAMP, EU Data Protection Directive, and FISMA, to help you meet regulatory requirements. It also has capability to log access to objects for audit purposes. You can replicate S3 objects accross regions for more availability. You can do S3 Batch operations to edit properties of billions of  objects in bulk. S3 can also be used with Lambda so you can store stuff in S3 and serve them with Lambda Application without having to maintain additional infrastructure. You can also lock S3 objects and prevent their deletion. Multi Factor Authentication can also be used to prevent accidental deletion of S3 Objects. You may also query S3 objects using SQL via Amazon Athena. S3 Select can be used to retrieve subset of data in object rather than complete object and improve query performance.

## Storage Tiers, Versioning and Lifecycles

S3 has several tiers of storage according to different needs. So for example, if you acess data infrequently (S3-IA) or can tolerate delays of minutes to hours for data retrieval (S3 Glacier), you may store it in different tiers to save cost. It also allows us to setup lifecycles so we can setup rules such that if data is 3 months old, we may want to move it to infrequently accessed tier. If we have compliance data such as old access logs, we may want to store it in Glacier deep archive. Let's see what each tier means in detail below.

#### S3-Standard


#### S3-IA


#### S3-IA-One-Zone


#### S3 Glacier


#### S3 Glacier Deep Archive


### Intelligent Tiering


### Lifecycle Management


### Versioning



## Transfer Acceleration



## Cross Region Replication


## Additonal Sources

[https://aws.amazon.com/s3/faqs/](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/faqs/)
[https://aws.amazon.com/s3/storage-classes/?nc=sn&loc=3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/storage-classes/?nc=sn&loc=3)
[Developer Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/Welcome.html)
