---
layout: post
title: AWS SAA Certification Exam Notes - Storage Gateway
---

AWS Storage Gateway AWS Storage Gateway is a hybrid storage service that enables your on- premises applications to seamlessly use AWS cloud storage. You can use the service for backup and archiving, disaster recovery, cloud data processing, storage tiering, and migration. Your applications connect to the service through a virtual machine or hardware gateway appliance using standard storage protocols, such as NFS, SMB and iSCSI. The gateway connects to AWS storage services, such as Amazon S3, Amazon Glacier, and Amazon EBS, providing storage for files, volumes, and virtual tapes in AWS. The service includes a highly-optimized data transfer mechanism, with bandwidth management, automated network resilience, and efficient data transfer, along with a local cache for low-latency on-premises access to your most active data.

The service stores files as native S3 objects, archives virtual tapes in Amazon Glacier, and stores EBS Snapshots generated by the Volume Gateway with Amazon EBS.

### File Gateway

Supports a file interface into S3 and combines a service and a virtual software appliance.

With a file gateway, you can do the following:

- You can store and retrieve files directly using the NFS version 3 or 4.1 protocol.
- You can store and retrieve files directly using the SMB file system version, 2 and 3 protocol.
- You can access your data directly in S3 from any AWS Cloud application or service.
- You can manage your S3 data using lifecycle policies, cross-region replication, and versioning.

File Gateway now supports Amazon S3 Object Lock, enabling write-once-read-many (WORM) file-based systems to store and access objects in Amazon S3.

Any modifications such as file edits, deletes or renames from the gateway’s NFS or SMB clients are stored as new versions of the object, without overwriting or deleting previous versions.

Gateway-Cached and File Gateway volumes retain a copy of frequently accessed data subsets locally

### Volume Gateway

Provides cloud-backed storage volumes that you can mount as iSCSI devices from your on-premises application servers.

### Cached volumes

You store your data in S3 and retain a copy of frequently accessed data subsets locally. Cached volumes can range from 1 GiB to 32 TiB in size and must be rounded to the nearest GiB. Each gateway configured for cached volumes can support up to 32 volumes

### Stored volumes

If you need low-latency access to your entire dataset, first configure your on-premises gateway to store all your data locally. Then asynchronously back up point-in-time snapshots of this data to S3. 

### Tape Gateway

Archive backup data in Amazon Glacier. Has a virtual tape library (VTL) interface to store data on virtual tape cartridges that you create. Deploy your gateway on an EC2 instance to provision iSCSI storage volumes in AWS.

### References

[https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-storage-gateway/](https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-storage-gateway/)

[https://aws.amazon.com/storagegateway/faqs/](https://aws.amazon.com/storagegateway/faqs/)