---
layout: post
title: Life in 2019
---

It's been a long time since I have written anything meaningful. I miss writing but my procrastination is always in way. I went on a vacation recently with family and decided when I come back from vacation, I will resume writing. So this is just another meaningless post to start with something.

While I didn't write in 2018 and most of 2019, I was still learning a lot. First, I learned how to be a parent. My toddler, who was born in end of 2017, is excellent teacher. Sometimes, she gives tough lessons to her lousy students/parents, most of times she's the shining star of my life. Professionally, I am better at Java and related technologies now than ever. Two major projects I did was setting up Kubernetes clusters and moving large monolith into it by splitting it in microservices. During this project I worked on Prometheus, Zuul proxy, Spring Boot, Netflix's Hysterix and Nginx. Another cool project was moving entire codebase of huge application from Oracle to Mariadb.

Working on legacy codebase to remove hard coded Oracle queries was pain in the ass and got me interested in reading books about working with Legacy code. Working Effectively with Legacy Code and Refactoring are excellent books that I would recommend to every programmer.

Another excellent book I read recently is Designing Data Intensive Applications. This book is hands down amazing. If you're even slightly interested in what the hype about all these NoSQL databases is, this is the book for you. It opens the black box for you so what you considered magic, now becomes obvious. If you read it, you will know what goes behind all these new/old databases and will be better equipped at choosing right solution for right problem. I will write about stuff I have read in this book some other day.

Anyways, that's it for today, hopefully I will write more posts from now on.